Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says Israel will not withdraw
its troops from the border between
Southern Gaza and Egypt known as the
Philadelphia Corridor he said those
troops would remain until there is a
guarantee the corridor could never be
used as a smuggling route by Hamas which
was behind the October 7th Terror
attacks Netanyahu stressed that
controlling the corridor was a condition
for a permanent
ceasefire he said that Israel will not
get it hostages back if it relieves
pressure on Hamas these are the
terrorists that Iran implanted next to
our
border as elsewhere and we're committed
to deeding
them to extricating this evil from our
midst I want to talk to you today about
some of the things that we must do to
achieve that goal including the
questions of the Philadelphia
order for more let's get across to
journalist bik sadine in Tel Aviv I'd
like to start by asking first a little
bit about why we saw this conference
from Netanyahu in the first place do you
think it is a sign that he feels Under
Pressure to justify his government's
approach well he definitely Under
Pressure both from inside and from
outside that the whole issue about the
Philadelphia cdor is taking a lot of
attention more than it should be
actually and now everybody is thinking
that the Prime Minister he is the only
one that is insisting with the
Philadelphia Corridor and it's the only
obstacle to reaching a deal which is not
actually and he was asked about that and
he explained about that so he needs to
explain why Israel needs to stay in the
Philadelphia Corridor he basically gave
the same speech or the same press
conference that that he gave a couple of
days ago to the Israeli media now he
gives it to the international media in
order to explain the importance of the
Philadelphia Corridor he of course
repeated his apology to the families of
the hostages and also said that Israel
cannot after such an incident decide to
um give more concessions because that
will be assign for Hamas to uh actually
kill more hostages in order to gain more
concessions and he asked the
International Community right now to put
pressure on Hamas and not on Israel
actually to reach a deal because Israel
as he says already accepted the deal
that President Biden proposed in May the
uh fixed deal in August and he repeated
his um commitment to bringing back the
hostages as soon as possible okay so
something very much tailored toward an
international audience here Netanyahu
also said in this in this conference
that until Israel gets a guarantee that
the Border area uh between Southern Gaz
and Egypt that it can't be used to
support hamasa Israel will not withdraw
its troops what do you think an
acceptable guarantee would look like for
Israel well if I want to repeat what
Netanyahu said he said that we don't
want people to just say that we will
actually control that area and prevent
Hamas from smuggling weapons because
we've heard that before we've heard that
from the Egyptians before there has been
an international um um mission to the
Philadelphia cdor years ago and and now
he says that no one has proved that his
um policies are effective or his
presence is effective and we need to be
there basically I would say that
Netanyahu knows what he is saying that
in the second phase of the deal when
Israel asks for someone to take care of
the Philadelphia Corridor he basically
says that um he knows that no one is
standing in line no country is standing
in line to go and put its troops in the
Philadelphia Corridor and take that
mission on itself in other words he
means that we will stay in the
Philadelphia Corridor in the near future
um and only Israel can actually
guarantee that that Hamas doesn't
smuggle weapons and doesn't rehabilitate
itself through that Corridor well thank
you very much for speaking with us that
is journalist bik
sedine thank you